fake data generator notebook (#1846)
deephaven/deephaven-core: demo/web/src/main/notebooks/A. Real-time table ops/A1 Create tables and fake data .md

# Create tables and fake data

> In this demo, we show how to perform real-time operations on tables. To start off, we will need to create some tables with data in them.

Reviewer: After reading the whole thing, the purpose of this notebook is to generate some fake data that we can manipulate later. 

"Throughout this demo notebook series, we show many of the ways to interact with real-time data in Deephaven. Here, we create some tables with fake data; in other notebooks, we show how to perform table operations on that data. Knowing how to create fake ticking tables can be useful for many applications. For instance, you may want to..."

@jakemulf I don't know the best way to finish that sentence. Timetables are useful for lots of things, but those reasons don't necessarily apply here.

> In this demo, we show how to perform real-time operations on tables. To start off, we will need to create some tables with data in them.

Reviewer 2: I haven't read the whole thing yet, but if the notebook is titled "create tables and fake data" then it should focus on creating the data, not the operations on the data.  The first line conflicts with the title of the notebook.

> In this demo, we show how to perform real-time operations on tables. To start off, we will need to create some tables with data in them.

Author: The way Pete laid it out was that this is supposed to be part of a "real-time table ops" series, with this being the first entry. I think the intro Margaret has will make more sense with the context of the entire series

> In this demo, we show how to perform real-time operations on tables. To start off, we will need to create some tables with data in them.

Author: How does this sound?

```
Throughout this demo notebook series, we show many of the ways to interact with real-time data in Deephaven. Here, we create some tables with fake data; in other notebooks, we show how to perform table operations on that data. Knowing how to create fake ticking tables can be useful for familiarizing yourself with Deephaven and to work on proof of concepts without necessarily having a complete dataset.
```

> In this demo, we show how to perform real-time operations on tables. To start off, we will need to create some tables with data in them.

Reviewer: LGTM

> The following Python code contains a method that creates a table with random integers and characters in it, with each row in the table containing a time-stamp as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following Python code contains a method that creates a table of random integers and characters, with each row in the table also containing a timestamp.
```

```python
from deephaven import DynamicTableWriter
from deephaven.DateTimeUtils import plus
import deephaven.Types as dht

import random
import string

def create_random_table(number_of_rows, start_time, time_offset):
    """
    Creates a Deephaven table containing rows of random integers from 1 to 99, random

>     uppercase characters, and time-stamps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    uppercase characters, and timestamps.
```

    
    Parameters:
        number_of_rows (int): The number of rows that the resulting table will contain.
        start_time (DateTime): The Deephaven date-time of the first row in the table.

>         time_offset (Period): A Period object representing the time-stamp difference between

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        time_offset (Period): A Period object representing the timestamp difference between
```

            each row in the table.
    Returns:
        A Deephaven Table containing the random data.
    """
    column_names = ["DateTime", "Number", "Character"]
    column_types = [dht.datetime, dht.int_, dht.string]
    table_writer = DynamicTableWriter(column_names, column_types)

    time = start_time
    for i in range(number_of_rows):
        random_number = random.randint(1, 100)
        random_character = random.choice(string.ascii_uppercase)
        table_writer.logRow(time, random_number, random_character)
        time = plus(time, time_offset)

    return table_writer.getTable()
```

> We can use this method to create some tables with random data in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can use this method to create some tables with random data.
```

```python
from deephaven.DateTimeUtils import Period, convertDateTime

start_time = convertDateTime("2000-01-01T00:00:00 NY")

time_offset = Period("T1S")
t1 = create_random_table(5, start_time, time_offset)
t2 = create_random_table(50, start_time, time_offset)

time_offset = Period("T10S")
t3 = create_random_table(5, start_time, time_offset)
t4 = create_random_table(50, start_time, time_offset)

time_offset = Period("T0.1S")
t5 = create_random_table(5, start_time, time_offset)

> t6 = create_random_table(50, start_time, time_offset)

Reviewer 2: Generally speaking, you want to use DynamicTableWriter in a thread, unless you want the console to lock up while a table is being written using DynamicTableWriter.  I know these only write small tables with no wait time between new rows, so it creates the tables pretty instantaneously, but I'd still recommend using threads.  You could also show concurrency.

Also, this notebook only shows how to use DynamicTableWriter.  What about other methods to create tables like timeTable, Replayer, etc?

Author: Ooh that's good to know, did not know that about dynamic table writer. I'll update this to thread the method

I felt that dynamic table writer was the most intuitive way to create random/fake data at scale. timeTable could certainly work, but that depends on running it for a certain amount of time, and Replayer requires an already existing table (right?). We could use emptyTable and methods to generate random data, something like

```
from deephaven.TableTools import emptyTable

import random

def random_int():
    return random.randint(1,100)

result = emptyTable(5)

result = result.update("Numbers = random_int()")
```

Would that be preferable? Or good to demo as an alternative to dynamic table writer?

Reviewer: @jjbrosnan

```

> [The next notebook](A2%20Filter%20and%20decorate.md) will show how to filter and decorate this data.

Reviewer: doesn't exit yet, though?

Author: That is correct, this is a placeholder. I'm assuming we're gonna publish this entire folder at once so this won't be a dead link on the live demo

> [The next notebook](A2%20Filter%20and%20decorate.md) will show how to filter and decorate this data.

Reviewer 2: In the first line, you mention doing operations on tables, but don't do any here.  I'd reword the start and remove mention of doing operations on data when they're not present in the notebook.

Author: Let's move discussion to https://github.com/deephaven/deephaven-core/pull/1846#discussion_r787697946 since that's pretty similar to this comment, this might make more sense in the context of the entire folder

# Create tables and fake data

> Throughout this demo notebook series, we show many of the ways to interact with real-time data in Deephaven. Here, we create some tables with fake data; in other notebooks, we show how to perform table operations on that data. Knowing how to create fake ticking tables can be useful for familiarizing yourself with Deephaven and to work on proof of concepts without necessarily having a complete dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughout this demo notebook series, we show many of the ways to interact with real-time data in Deephaven. Here, we create some tables with fake data; in other notebooks, we show how to perform table operations on that data. Knowing how to create fake ticking tables is useful for familiarizing yourself with Deephaven, but also for working on proof of concepts without necessarily having a complete dataset.
```

> Throughout this demo notebook series, we show many of the ways to interact with real-time data in Deephaven. Here, we create some tables with fake data; in other notebooks, we show how to perform table operations on that data. Knowing how to create fake ticking tables is useful for familiarizing yourself with Deephaven, but also for working on proof of concepts without necessarily having a complete dataset.

Reviewer 2: Nice intro
